The Democratic Republic of the Congo,
also called the DRC,
is an African country that is
almost one quarter the size of Europe.
Yet, despite the challenges,
Jehovah’s Witnesses successfully
distribute Bibles
and Bible-based publications
to the people of Congo.
This journey begins at the South Africa
branch office of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
commonly known as Bethel.
Journals and other publications
are printed here,
and these are loaded onto trucks
traveling to Congo.
Each month,
these trucks pass through many borders
—a journey of 4,500 kilometers.
It will take about 21 days
to travel toward the equator,
cutting through some of the most
challenging conditions in Africa
to arrive safely at
the Kinshasa branch office in Congo.
But some of the literature
still has a long way to go.
From Kinshasa,
a boat will travel up the Congo River
for 14 days,
covering a distance of 1,200 kilometers.
It is in this part of the journey
that the literature crosses
the equator to reach Bumba.
Because infrastructure is limited,
bicycles and motorcycles
are the most practical means
of transport on land.
In Bumba,
the local Witnesses
quickly coordinate efforts
to deliver the literature on time.
Philippe volunteers to travel
from Bumba to Yandongi,
a village about 100 kilometers away,
with a load of 180 kilograms on his bicycle.
I try to make the trip in only two days
so I can be back
to study the Bible with my family.
On another route,
he travels from Bumba to Bondo.
This 425-kilometer trek
takes seven days one way.
The roads are badly maintained,
and when it rains,
the state of the roads is terrible
—a catastrophe.
When I arrive
at the brothers with the literature,
everyone receives me with cries of happiness.
They are the ones who off-load my bike,
keep it upright, and off-load the packages.
By then, I am sitting somewhere,
and I feel very content.
Matthieu will travel 200 kilometers
upstream in his canoe
to deliver literature to Mombongo.
He is one of the volunteers
who helps transport the literature
on its epic journey every month.
It usually takes him four days,
depending on the weather.
For me,
this journey is like working at Bethel.
When I’m in the dugout canoe,
I feel like I’m in a floating Bethel.
When we arrive,
the brothers welcome us with love.
They are really happy
and thank Jehovah for the provision
given by his organization
to have the literature reach them on time.
The Watchtower  is published simultaneously
in over 240 languages around the world.
This epic journey
into the far reaches of Congo
is one example of the efforts
Jehovah’s Witnesses make
to share the Bible’s lifesaving message.